# MEMOF508

Python code on this repository permits to mine processes from event-logs using the Alpha Plus algorithm.
Needed: Python3, Graphviz
Input event-logs must be specified in a file using a specific notation, ex:
LogName=[(a,b,c), (a,d,c)]
Here, the process event-log 'LogName' has two traces: (a,b,c) and (a,d,c) 
Examples of such event-logs ar given in:
examples
noisyExamples and
funnyExamples

To mine processes from event-logs: two implementations of the Alpha Plus algorithm are available:
original_alpha.py is the original Alpha Plus algorithm. Only noiseless event-logs, such as the ones in 'examples', can be given as input to it.
It can also mine non-local dependencies given a noiseless log, using the option '-nldp'.
alphaMiner.py is an improved version of the original Alpha Plus algorithm. It is robust to noise and permits to mine non-local dependencies (under certain circumstances).
Both codes use parser.py and graphvizWriter.py. alphaMiner.py also uses dftable.py.


To run one of the algorithm on an event-log:
python3 [algorithm].py [logFile]
Ex: To mine non-local dependencies on a noiseless event-log:
python3 original_alpha.py [logFile] -nldp

The output is a .dot file. To visualise the mined process:
dot -Tps [logFile].dot -o [logFile].eps
Returns a .eps picture of the process, generated by Graphviz.

An event-log can be generated from a process representation (i.e., a .dot file) using traceGenerator.py (which uses petrinet.py).
It will create a .txt file of 1000 traces with 5% noise. These parameters can be tuned in the main in traceGenerator.py.
Example sof .dot files are given in dotExamples